Transient dynamic tables (#8741)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/snowflake-configs.md

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.12">

### Transient (dynamic tables)

> The Snowflake adapter supports creating [transient dynamic tables](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-dynamic-table), which are created without a [Fail-safe period](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-failsafe) and can reduce storage costs. To create a dynamic table as transient, set `transient: true` in the model configuration.

Reviewer: maybe its me but i found this intro sentence to be confusing - what is fail safe in this context? should we lead with the 'why'? here?

> When `transient` is not set, dbt uses the [`snowflake_default_transient_dynamic_tables`](/reference/global-configs/snowflake-changes#the-snowflake_default_transient_dynamic_tables-flag) behavior flag to determine the default behavior. This flag defaults to `False`, meaning dynamic tables are created as permanent by default.

Reviewer: the relationship between the config and the flag isn't entirely clear 

```suggestion
If you want all dynamic tables to be transient by default (without setting `transient: true` on each one), enable the [`snowflake_default_transient_dynamic_tables`](/reference/global-configs/snowflake-changes#the-snowflake_default_transient_dynamic_tables-flag) flag in your `dbt_project.yml`. This flag defaults to `False`, meaning dynamic tables are created as permanent by default.
```
